An adversary is more hurt by desertion than by slaughter. - Vegetius
What can a soldier do who charges when out of breath? - Vegetius
Few men are born brave, many become so through training and force of discipline. - Vegetius
Valour is superior to numbers. - Vegetius
An ambuscade, if discovered and promptly surrounded, will repay the intended mischief with interest - Vegetius
A general is not easily overcome who can form a true judgement of his own and the enemy's forces. - Vegetius
Qui desiderat pacem praeparet bellum, Let him who desires peace prepare for war - Vegetius
We die today not only for our friends and family but for our gods and for our forefathers and men before them so pray to them to make us victorious - Vegetius
Let all be present and expect the palm, the prize of victory. - Virgil
So ends the bloody business of the day. - Homer
Even the bravest cannot fight beyond his strength. - Homer
Men grow tired of sleep, love, singing and dancing sooner than war. - Homer
He serves me most, who serves his country best. - Homer
The blade itself incites to violence - Homer
To those that flee comes neither power nor glory - Homer
Ye gods, what dastards would our host command? Swept to the war, the lumber of the land. - Homer
Noble and manly music invigorates the spirit, strengthens the wavering man, and incites him to great and worthy deeds. - Homer
A glorious death is his who for his country falls. - Homer
Conquered, we conquer - Plautus
Ah, yes, mere infantry - poor beggars... - Plautus
The valiant profit more their country than the finest, cleverest speakers - Plautus
Quick decisions are unsafe decisions. - Sophocles
It is the brave man's part to live with glory, or with glory die. - Sophocles
The outcome corresponds less to expectations in war than in any other case whatsoever. - Livy
Vae victus, Woe to the vanquished. - Livy
To a good general luck is important. - Livy
All warfare is based on deception. - Sun Tzu
In war, numbers alone confer no advantage. Do not advance relying on sheer military power. - Sun Tzu
Generally management of the many is the same as generally management of the few, it's a matter of organization. - Sun Tzu
He who knows when he can fight and when he cannot will be victorious. - Sun Tzu
In peace, sons bury their fathers, in war, fathers bury their sons. - Herodotus
Far better is to have a stout heart always and suffer one's share of evils, than to be ever fearing what may happen. - Herodotus
After the war is over, make alliances - Greek proverb
Fortis cadere, cedere non potest. A brave man may fall, but he cannot yield. - Latin proverb
Victory loves prudence. - Latin proverb
Flet victus, victor interiit. The conquered mourns, the conqueror is undone. - Latin proverb
Timidi mater non flet. A coward's mother does not weep. - Latin proverb
Arms keep peace - Latin proverb
To blunder twice is not allowed in war - Latin proverb
The proper arts of a general are judgement and prudence. - Tacitus
Great empires are not maintained by timidity. - Tacitus
A bad peace is even worse than a war - Tacitus
Even the bravest men are frightened by sudden terrors - Tacitus
The desire for safety stands against every great and noble enterprise. - Tacitus
Valour is the contempt of death and pain. - Tacitus
They make a solitude and call it peace. - Tacitus
Every care must be taken that our auxiliaries, being stronger than our citizens, may not grow too much for them and become savage beasts. - Plato
Only the dead have seen the end of the war. - Plato
The rulers of the State are the only ones who should have the privilege of lying - Plato
I think the slain care little if they sleep or rise again. - Aeschylus
A people's voice is dangerous when charged with wrath. - Aeschylus
In war we must always leave room for strokes of fortune, and accidents that cannot be foreseen. - Polybius
A good general not only sees the way to victory, he also knows when victory is impossible. - Polybius
Bella detesta matribus. Wars are the dread of mothers. - Horace
Quae caret ora cruore nostro? What coast knows not our blood? - Horace
Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori. It is a sweet and seemly thing to die for one's country. - Horace
Adversity reveals the genius of a general; good fortune conceals it - Horace
A wise man in times of peace prepares for war. - Horace
A collision at sea can ruin your entire day. - Thucydides
The strong did what they could, and the weak suffered what they must. - Thucydides
Self-control is the chief element in self respect, and self-respect is the chief element in courage. - Thucydides 
The true contempt of an invader is shown by deeds of valour in the field. - Hermocrates of Syracuse
They have an abundance of gold and silver, and these make war, like other things, go smoothly. - Hermocrates of Syracuse
When there is mutual fear, men think twice before they make aggression upon one another. - Hermocrates
Nobody is driven in to war by ignorance, and no one who thinks he will gain anything from it is deterred by fear. - Hermocrates
Even the bravest cannot fight beyond his strength. - Euripides
The god of war hates those who hesitate. - Euripides
Danger gleams like sunshine to a brave man's eyes. - Euripides
A large army is always disorderly. - Euripides
Fas est et ab hoste doceri. It is right to learn, even from the enemy. - Ovid
The gods favour the bold. - Ovid
Armed forces abroad are of little value unless there is prudent counsel at home. - Cicero
The sinews of war are infinite money. - Cicero
War is not so much a matter of weapons, as of money. - Cicero
Silent enim leges inter arma, Laws are silent in times of war - Cicero
War, as the saying goes, is full of false alarms. - Aristotle
We make war that we may live in peace. - Aristotle
The wise man speaks because he has something to say, the fool because he has to say something - Aristotle
It is a bad plan that cannot be altered. - Publilius Syrus
Pardon one offence and you encourage the commission of many - Publilius Syrus
We should provide in peace what we need in war - Publilius Syrus
The cruelty of war makes for peace. - Publilius Syrus
Necessity knows no law except to conquer. - Publilius Syrus
He is best secure from dangers who is on his guard even when he seems safe. - Publilius Syrus
In war important events result from trivial causes. - Gaius Julius Caesar
War gives the right of the conquerors to impose any conditions they please upon the vanquished.- Gaius Julius Caesar
Veni, vidi, vici. I came, I saw, I conquered. - Gaius Julius Caesar
Alea iacta est The die is cast - Gaius Julius Caesar
If you must break the law, do it to seize power, in all other cases observe it. - Gaius Julius Caesar
Men of Athens, there is not much time for exhortation, but to the brave a few words are as good as many. - Hippocrates
War is the only proper school of the surgeon. - Hippocrates
If a man does not know to what port he is sailing, no wind is favourable. - Seneca
The fortunes of war are always doubtful - Seneca
Constant exposure to dangers will breed contempt for them. - Seneca
Against danger it pays to be prepared. - Aesop
Brave men are a city's strongest tower of defence. - Alcaeus
A dead enemy always smells good. - Aulus Vitellius
Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war. - Shakespeare: Julius Caesar, III, 1
He conquers who endures. - Persius
Extraordinary rains pretty generally fall after great battles. - Plutarch
I am more afraid of our own mistakes than of our enemies' designs. - Pericles
When one side goes against the enemy with the gods' gift of stronger morale, then their adversaries, as a rule, cannot withstand them. - Xenophon
Bella, horida bella! Wars, horrid wars! - Virgil
Willing obedience always beats forced obedience - Xenophon
Soldiers do not like being under the command of one who is not of noble birth. - Onosander
To an imperial city nothing is inconsistent which is expedient. - Euphemus of Athens
In the moment of action remember the value of silence and order. - Phormio of Athens
If a man does not strike first, he will be first struck. - Athenogoras of Syracuse Fortes fortuna adiuvat.
Fortune favours the brave. - Terence
In war we must be speedy. - Silius Italicus
Learn to obey before you command. - Solon of Athens
Varus, give me back my legions. - Augustus Caesar: After the defeat and annihilation of Varus' column in Teutoberg Forest
The Spartans do not ask how many enemies but where they are. - Agis II of Sparta
Come home with this shield, or upon it. - A Spartan mother equips her son
Who was the first that forged the deadly blade? Of rugged steel his savage soul was made. - Tibullus
A small country cannot contend with a great; the few cannot contend with the many; and the weak cannot contend with the strong - Mencius
A disorderly mob is no more an army than a heap of building materials is a house - Socrates
To brave men, the prizes that war offers are liberty and fame - Lycurgus of Sparta
War spares not the brave but the cowardly - Anacreon
It is the noblest and safest thing for a great army to be visibly animated by one spirit - Archidamus of Sparta
Ah! The generals! They are numerous but not good for much! - Aristophanes
Let them hate us as long as they fear us - Caligula
To lead untrained people to war is to throw them away - Confucius
Only the brave enjoy noble and glorious deaths - Dionysius
The walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wheels, and of the chariots - Ezekiel, XXVI, 10
Alta sedent civilis vulnera dextrae Deep are the wounds that civil strife inflicts - Lucan
It is pleasant, when the sea is high and the winds are dashing the waves about, to watch from the shores the struggles of another - Lucretius
Hannibal knew how to gain a victory, but not how to use it - Maharbal
The man who runs away will fight again - Menander
An alliance with the powerful is never to be trusted - Phaedrus
War is sweet to those who have never experienced it - Pindar
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of battle! - II Samuel, I, 25
March divided and fight concentrated - Military maxim
Divide and conquer - Military maxim
Nothing happens to anybody which he is not fitted by nature to bear - Marcus Aurelius
He doth nothing but talk of his horse. - Shakespeare, The Merchant of Venice, i, 2
All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players. - Shakespeare, As You Like It, ii, 7
I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways. - Shakespeare, As You Like It, v, 1
Here I and sorrows sit; Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it. - Shakespeare, King John, iii, 1
Go, bid the soldiers shoot. - Shakespeare, Hamlet, iv, 2
Come the three corners of the world in arms, and we shall shock them. - Shakespeare, King John, iv, 7
A man can die but once. - Shakespeare, King Henry IV, Part:II. iii, 2
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds. - Shakespeare, King Richard III, v, 3
A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse! - Shakespeare, King Richard III, v, 4
The better part of valour is discretion. - Shakespeare, King Henry IV, Part: I, v, 4
To whom God will, there be the victory. - Shakespeare, King Henry the Sixth, Part: III, ii, 5
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers. - Shakespeare, Much Ado About Nothing, i, 1
We are ready to try our fortunes To the last man. - Shakespeare, King Henry IV, Part: II, iv, 2
And many strokes, though with a little axe, hew down and fell the hardest-timbered oak. - Shakespeare, King Henry VI, Part: III, ii, 1
Upon his royal face there is no note how dread an army hath enrounded him; - Shakespeare, King Henry V, iv prologue
There's daggers in men's smiles. - Shakespeare, Macbeth, II, 3
Fight to the last gasp. - Shakespeare, King Henry VI, part 1, i, 1
I'll fight, till from my bones my flesh be hacked. - Shakespeare, Macbeth, v, 3
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more! - Shakespeare, King Henry V, iii, 1
Since love and fear can hardly coexist together, if we must choose between them, it is far safer to be feared than loved. - Niccolò Machiavelli
The princes who have done great things are the ones who have taken little account of their promises. - Niccolò Machiavelli
So far as he is able, a prince should stick to the path of good but, if the necessity arises, he should know how to follow evil. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Men should either be treated generously or destroyed, because they take revenge for slight injuries - for heavy ones they cannot. - Niccolò Machiavelli
The prince must be a fox... to recognize the traps and a lion to frighten the wolves. - Niccolò Machiavelli
The sinews of war are not gold, but good soldiers. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Among other evils which being unarmed brings you, it causes you to be despised. - Niccolò Machiavelli
The best fortress which a prince can possess is the affection of his people. - Niccolò Machiavelli
No enterprise is more likely to succeed than one concealed from the enemy until it is ripe for execution. - Niccolò Machiavelli
A prince should therefore have no other aim or thought... but war and its organisation and discipline. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Whoever conquers a free town and does not demolish it commits a great error and may expect to be ruined himself. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Good order and discipline in any army are to be depended upon more than courage alone. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Good order makes men bold, and confusion, cowards. - Niccolò Machiavelli
He who wishes to be obeyed must know how to command. - Niccolò Machiavelli
One should never risk one's whole fortune unless supported by one's entire forces. - Niccolò Machiavelli
It is not titles that honour men, but men that honour titles. - Niccolò Machiavelli
To ensure victory the troops must have confidence in themselves as well as in their commanders. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Wars begin when you will, but they do not end when you please. - Niccolò Machiavelli
Many of the common people in the armies were desolate, fearing future poverty; and so they sold their bows and the cowards returned to their own homes. - Fulcher of Chartres
Alas! How many noble and valiant knights we lost. - Fulcher of Chartres
There is now no hope of escaping. If you fight you will conquer, but if you flee you will fall. - Fulcher of Chartres
When he caught sight of their army, he was terrified and groaned in his mind. - Fulcher of Chartres
A safe stronghold our God is still. A trusty shield and weapon. - Martin Luther
Faith must trample under foot all reason, sense, and understanding. - Martin Luther
Nothing good ever comes of violence. - Martin Luther
War is the greatest plague that can affect humanity; it destroys religion, it destroys states, it destroys families. Any scourge is preferable to it. - Martin Luther
War is delightful to those who have had no experience of it. - Erasmus
Fortune favours the audacious. - Erasmus
The most disadvantageous peace is better than the most just war. - Erasmus
Better to reign in hell than serve in heav'n. - John Milton
For what can war, but endless war, still breed? - John Milton
Luck is the residue of design. - John Milton
Peace hath her victories, no less renowned than War. - John Milton
What does not destroy me, makes me strong. - John Milton
There are some defeats more triumphant than victories. - Michel Eyquem de Montaigne
Tis so much to be a king, that he only is so by being so. - Michel Eyquem de Montaigne
The souls of emperors and cobblers are cast in the same mould. . . . The same reason that makes us wrangle with a neighbour causes a war betwixt princes. - Michel Eyquem de Montaigne
The fighting was fierce and lasted for the greater part of a day; blood ran in rivers. - Matthew of Edessa
The Frankish duke wept bitterly to see his soldiers massacred. - Matthew of Edessa
On both sides the troops were commanded by royal princes and they massacred each other mercilessly. - Matthew of Edessa
Let the world tremble as it senses all you are about to accomplish. - Luís de Camões, The Lusíads, canto 1:15
Having done everything practical to make ready for so long a voyage, we prepared our souls to meet death, which is always on a sailor's horizon. - Luís de Camões, The Lusíads, canto 4:86
God has aroused the spirit of kings and princes to root up from the earth the enemies of the Christian name. - Bernard of Clairvaux
Therefore gird yourselves manfully and take up joyful arms for the name of God. - Bernard of Clairvaux
Kill them all, God will recognise his own. - Arnaud Amaury, Abbot of Citeaux
The strength of God will enable us, a small but faithful band, to overcome the multitude of the faithless. - Robert Guiscard
Let anyone who has zeal for God come with me! Let us fight for our brothers! Let Heaven's will be done! - Conrad III, ruler of the Holy Roman Empire
Whoever devotedly undertakes and performs this most holy journey...shall have the enjoyment of eternal reward from the repayer of all men. - Pope Eugenius III
Surrender before you all die by the sword, for I do not wish you to perish. - Imad ad-Din Zanghi
We shall not surrender. - Archbishop Hugh
Come on soldiers! Guardians and agents of the supreme law! Here is a sacrifice of dogs ready for your swords! - Il-Ghazi
At the first sound of the bugle, everyone should make haste to put on arms and armour. - Walter, Chancellor to Roger of Salerno
It is better to live one day as a lion than a hundred years as a sheep - Italian proverb
Put an end to so great an evil and arrive at a peace settlement whatever the outcome, and whatever the conditions.- William of Tyre
Take up the weapons of the glorious army for the salvation of many thousands. - Adela, wife of Stephen of Blois
If they wish to fight today, let them come like men. - Bohemund
They assembled from all sides, one after another, with arms and horses and all the panoply of war... - Anna Comnenus, The Alexiad
He withdrew, himself wounded, and was compelled to return home inglorious, weeping - he who had once vainly hoped for the glory of a triumph. - William of Apulia
Do you know, my son, with what little understanding the world is ruled? - Pope Julius III
Set out on pilgrimage and triumph gloriously over the infidels in the East. - Orderic Vitalis
Nothing is to be feared but fear. - Francis Bacon
In order for a war to be just, three things are necessary. First, the authority of the sovereign. Secondly, a just cause. Thirdly, a rightful intention. - Thomas Aquinas
Strike up the drum and march courageously. - Christopher Marlowe
Will no one revenge me of the injuries I have sustained from one turbulent priest? - Henry II, King of England
The fields have eyes, and the woods have ears. - Geoffrey Chaucer, Canterbury Tales, The Knights Tale
If some among them are innocent, it is expedient that they should be assayed like gold in the furnace and purged by proper judicial examination. - Royal letter opening the enquiry into the Templar Knights
Following the light of the sun, we left the Old World. - Christopher Columbus
It is better to be on hand with ten men than absent with ten thousand. - Tamerlane
And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, see that ye be not troubled; for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. - Matthew, ch. XXIV, V.6
Blessed be the Lord my strength, which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight. - Psalm, CXLIV
Inflict not on an enemy every injury in your power, for he may afterwards become your friend. - Moslih Eddin Saadi
No one conquers who doesn't fight. - Gabriel Biel
An emperor is subject to no one but God and justice. - Fredrick I, Barbarossa
Let the boy win his spurs. - Edward III, King of England, Battle of Crecy 1345
We who are the rest of the people raised our heart and eyes to heaven crying for God to have compassion upon us, and to turn away from us the power of the French. - Thomas Elthem, Henry V's Chaplain at Agincourt
He who knows not how to dissimulate, can not reign. - Louis XI, King of France
So many great nobles, things, administrations, so many high chieftains, so many brave nations, so many proud princes, and power so splendid; In a moment, a twinkling, all utterly ended.- Jacobus de Benedictus
It is more honourable to be raised to a throne than to be born to one. Fortune bestows the one, merit obtains the other. S- Petrarch
He who defends everything defends nothing. - Fredrick II, Holy Roman Emperor
I am the King of Rome, and above grammar. - Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor
When you see contention amongst your enemies, go and sit at ease with your friends; but when you see them of one mind, string your bow, and place stones upon the ramparts. - Moslih Eddin Saadi
Disasters teach us humility. - Saint Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury
I have loved justice and hated inequity; and therefore I die in exile. - Pope Gregory VII, Tuscan Pope
It is easy to be brave behind a castle wall. - Welsh proverb
In a fight, anger is as good as courage. - Welsh proverb
Undertake this journey for the remission of your sins, with the assurance of the imperishable glory of the Kingdom of Heaven! - Urban II, Pope
To carry on war, three things are necessary: money, money, and yet more money. - Gian Jacopo Trivulzio
If you do not leave this pasturage, Saladin will come and attack you here. And if you retreat from this attack the shame and reproach will be very great. - Gerard of Ridefort, letter written to King Guy
I speak Spanish to God, Italian to women, French to men, and German to my horse. - King Charles V King of France
Had I been present at the creation, I would have given some useful hints for the better ordering of the universe. - Alfonso X, the Wise, King of Castile
Every man should arm himself as quickly as he could, and come to the King. - Charles Oman
Let those who once fought against brothers and relatives now rightfully fight against barbarians. - Pope Urban II
Gross Hospittler (Hospitaller) responsible for organising and running the hospices and alm-houses of the Order. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
Gross Tressler (Grand Treasurer) resides with the Hochmeister and is responsible for the "state" treasury of the Order and almost all of their finances. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
Grosskomtur (Grand Commander) responsible for much of the administrative side of the Order. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
Komturei (the commandery) are the basic Order organisational unit. Each Komturei controls a district and a castle. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
Hochmeister (Grand Master) head of the Order, elected for life by a General Conclave. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
OberstTrappier (Quartermaster) governs areas regarded as pacified. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
Landmeister (provincial Master), subordinate to the OrdenMarschall, the Landmeister is responsible for the administration and military operations of his Province. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
OrdenMarschall (Order Marshall) also known as the Grand Marshal. Usually resides at the castle of Konigsberg and is responsible for all military operations on the Lithuanian borders. - Ranks of the Teutonic Order
At this very moment both armies, giving their war cries, met right in the middle of the valley... - Dlugosz on the battle of Tannenberg
...throughout the battle galloped amidst the banners, replacing the exhausted and the fallen by new forces, he watched with utmost alertness as fortunes swayed between the combatants - Dlugosz on Grand Duke Alexander Vytautas, The Battle of Tannenberg, 1410
The Grand Duke instilled so much terror in all the knights that they shook like leaves before him. - Dlugosz on Grand Duke Alexandre Vytautas
The two armies met, and there was terrible carnage, and the crash of spears and their breaking and the clash of swords smiting as they moved over the frozen sea, and you could not see the ice, it was covered with blood. - Life of Alexandre Nevskii, The Battle of Lake Peipus, 1242
With God's help he vanquished them, and the enemy forces turned and fled. But they [Alexandre's army] smote and pursued as if from the air; there was no place which they [the Crusaders] could flee. - Life of Alexandre Nevskii, The Battle of Lake Peipus, 1242
Spurning honesty and God, went against the Christians to destroy the land of Prussia. - Posilge, the chronicler of the Teutonic Order on Bohemian mercenaries
The forces of the Polish King were so numerous that there is no number high enough in the human languages. - Prussian chronicles
And they went against the godless Lithuanians, and thus for our sins they were defeated by the godless pagans, and only one man in ten came back to his home. - The Chronicle of Novgorod, 1237 on Nemtsii
hospitale sancte Marie Theutonicorum Jerosolimitanum - The Hospital of St. Mary of the Germans of Jerusalem - The Teutonic Order
The brothers [Teutonic Knights] fought well enough but they were nevertheless cut down. Some of those from Dorpat escaped from the battle, and it was their salvation that they had been forced to flee. - Livonian Rhymed Chronicle, The Battle of Lake Peipus, 1242
He would water his horses in the Rhine - Boast attributed to Grand Duke Vytautus of Lithuania
A hundred picked men to plunder and harass the pagans... entering four villages that were not warned of their coming and putting to the sword whoever they find beginning their nights' sleep. - The actions of a Teutonic raider, 1372
But you may rest assured that your childrens children will bewail your deeds. - Heinrich Reuss von Plauen, 32nd Grand Master of the Teutonic Order
And you should know that there was at least an acre of land behind the Templars, which was so covered with arrows fired by the Saracens, that none of the ground could be seen. - John of Joinville 11th February 1250
And in this battle, brother William, Master of the Templars, lost an eye; and he had lost the other one on the previous Shrove Tuesday; and that lord died as a consequence, may God absolve him! - John of Joinville 11th February 1250
Whoever devotedly undertakes and performs this most holy journey... shall have the enjoyment of eternal reward from the repayer of all men. - Pope Eugenius III
The strength of God will enable us, a small but faithful band, to overcome the multitude of the faithless. - Robert Guiscard
We should sympathize with their grief and in pity spare them, because they have lost a prince such as the rest of the world does not possess today. - Nur ad-Din on the death of King Baldwin III of Jerusalem
A king's son is not nobler than his food. - Irish proverb
Cry - God for Harry! England and Saint George! - William Shakespeare, Henry V. scene i.
Henry seeing he could not resist the multitude of the Scots, turned his horse with the intention of returning to his companions; but Robert opposed him and struck him on the head with an axe. - Account of the duel between Robert the Bruce King of Scotland and English knight Henry de Bohun
From that time there gathered to him all who were of bitter heart and were weighed down beneath the burden of bondage under the intolerable rule of English domination and he became their leader. - Scottish chronicler Fordun on William Wallace
Twelve highlanders and a bagpipe make a rebellion. - Scottish proverb
It is easy to be brave behind a castle wall. - Welsh proverb
The weakness of the enemy makes our strength - Cherokee proverb
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you. - Hopi proverb
The one who tells the stories rules the world - Hopi proverb
One finger cannot lift a pebble - Hopi proverb
In death, I am born - Hopi proverb
Force, no matter how concealed, begets resistance - Lakota proverb
You can't see the future with tears in your eyes - Navajo proverb
There is nothing as eloquent as a rattlesnake's tail - Navajo proverb
You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep - Navajo proverb
You can't win them all - Navajo proverb
After dark all cats are leopards - Zuni proverb
We went there to serve God, and also to get rich - Bernal Díaz del Castillo

It was all so wonderful that I do not know how to describe this first glimpse of things never heard of, seen or dreamed of before... - Bernal Díaz del Castillo

Following the light of the sun, we left the Old World - Cristopher Columbus

So loud was the wailing of women and children that there was not one man among us whose heart did not bleed at the sound... - Hernán Cortés

What men in all the world have shown such daring? - Hernán Cortés